# Hospital_Managements_system
The main motive of making this project “Hospital Management System” is to  make it easy to keep track of records and data thus avoiding any kind of  redundancy and data isolation problem. It is basically a user-friendly software  which is easy to use and is quite simple and fast. There will be no kind of  confusion or hectic to maintain so many data and records everything will be  stored in the database in an organized way. It is a java and DBMS combined project.

### PROBLEM STATEMENT:
Hospital mainly deals with the welfare and the life of the citizens so every day there is a large entry of data of patients, equipment and also maintaining a huge set of the record is not an easy task especially when it is done manually it is time taking plus making errors while inserting any data is obvious. This time taking procedure and error in data entry may risk any patient’s life, also it hampers the maintenance of the organization.

### DISCUSSION:
In the existing system of managing the hospital system, there was no kind of software involved. Besides that, the functionality was done manually. There was no involvement of any kind of operator in searching or updating data. Doing it manually eats a lot of time. Suppose there is a discharge of patient or need to search for available beds present or the available medicine stock everything was done manually and is a quite hectic process. This “Hospital Management System” software provides all kinds of facilities from inserting, updating, and deletion of data. So, it makes the management process efficient and reduces the time for any kind of request made. The system is user-friendly smoothly making every work move. Therefore, all the drawbacks that we face while manual maintenance of database this system overcome all of them.

### PROPOSED SOLUTION:
• Manually maintaining the database of the organization was a time taking process and the efficiency was low. This system reduces the time taking process and also the efficiency rate is extremely high. Earlier, searching for any kind of data suppose availability of vacant beds or number of emergency ward available had to be done manually but the system has functioned in such a way that it itself does the job efficiently and quickly just by clicking one switch. Not only the hospital has a huge stock of medicine so maintaining that huge set of data of each and every medicine available or the medicines required to be ordered is really hectic job if done manually. The system provides the feature for properly maintaining this medicine section of the hospital which is the most important section.
• Now the important thing is to connect the JAVA files with the Oracle database. For that, we need a JDBC driver for SQL which will make the connection between the JAVA files and the Database.
• The con.java is the main connection file for this project without which we cannot make any connection between the database and JAVA.

### RESULT ANALYSIS:
The result or the feedback of this system is positive and effective making maintenance easy and simple. The system makes every procedure organized and swift. It also reduces the mental stress and the hectic problem a receptionist or the hospital organization has to go through. The process of inserting or searching or updating any data is easy and quite efficient and quick besides that the files and records are synchronized and secured.
